The Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet (PPPoE) feature supports PPPoE on cable interfaces, allowing service providers to extend their existing 
PPP dial-up provisioning systems to users on cable networks. When PPPoE Termination is enabled, the OpenCMTS encapsulates PPP packets in Ethernet 
frames within PPPoE sessions.
When the OpenCMTS receives PPPoE traffic from PPPoE sessions that are initiated by the user’s PC, the OpenCMTS either terminates the PPPoE 
sessions on the cable interface or transmits the PPPoE traffic through a secure tunnel connection, depending on the OpenCMTS configuration.
The following are the most typical configurations:
	•	Internet access—For residential customers and other users who want only basic Internet access, traffic is sent out on the WAN interface 
  as standard IP packets. The service provider can use the same provisioning systems as they use for their dial-up users and other broadband users. 
  The PPPoE session exists only between the cable modem and OpenCMTS, simplifying network management and configuration.
	•	Secure corporate access—For businesses or telecommuters, traffic is forwarded over a Layer 2 point-to-point Tunneling Protocol (L2TP) tunnel 
  to a L2TP network server (LNS) to create secure corporate intranet access. Cable modem users can access company resources as if they were 
  directly connected to the corporate network, without compromising network security. 
	•	When using the L2TP tunnel configuration, the OpenCMTS acts as the L2TP Access Concentrator (LAC), or Network Access Server (NAS). When the 
  cable modem, acting as a bridge, receives its PPPoE session traffic, it forwards the traffic on to the hosts and other customer premises equipment 
  (CPE) devices that are connected behind it. Users at these hosts or CPE devices can use standard PPP to log on to the cable network and obtain 
  their IP addresses and other network information. User names and passwords can be included in the OpenCMTS configuration, or the service provider 
  can use the same Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) authentication servers as they use for their dial-up and digital subscriber 
  line (DSL) users. For example, the OpenSubscriber Registration Center (CSRC) provides an Access Registrar that provides RADIUS server authentication.
  
The PPPoE Termination feature supports simultaneous use of PPPoE clients and Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) clients behind the same 
cable modems. Subscribers can use PPPoE for their initial log on to the cable network, and then use DHCP to allow their other PCs and other hosts 
to obtain IP addresses for network access.
